#Attackers
they can be internal or external, 
Attackers may differ from the level of sophistication, access to resources, motivation and intent.

least sphisticated threat - Script kiddies as they use other's hacking tool. they are easily defeated using firewall, basic regular patching, intrusion prevention system, endpoint security. they lack technical skills

Hactivist falls in any range of the sphistication they may be like script kiddies or technically strong as well. they are different from the other attackers based on the mootivation. 
hacker+activist = hactivist they do this for the political and the social agenda

criminal syndicates are focussed on the ransomware, they want financial gains. 

corporate espionage is the one who intrudes like the supporter and then leaks the information to the other competitor

advanced persistent threat - APT - highly skilled or well funded attackers. They can also be a from the military units. they employ very advanced tools and is extremely hard to detect.

hackers 
white hat: with permission and good intent
gray hat: no permission and good intent
black hat: no permission and no good intent

##internal
dangerous, they have all the access about the organisation and they are quite a big threat and alarming.
over 51% of the organisations suffer these. 
they are so costly than the external attacks.
mostly by the system administrators and the technical support, and other trusted users. 

##Privilege escalation attacks
this attack is bassically taking the power by hacking. the privilege to gain access to everything like the higher management. 
to rectify this, one should go through the background checks and they should be given the access they need to have.
Watch for shadow IT as they will have more data of the company that might cause unacceptable risks.


##Attack factors
phishing is the most common attacks in the present.
ad campaings on the social media
USB that is idle at a public space, they target people and tempt them to insert and see what is in that so they could spread malware.
even in USB cables 
ATM card skimmer that will extract the information from the magnetic strip to create the clone of the card.
cloud services
lan wires or any physical 
wireless network for a hacker to intrude into the organisation system.

##APT
injecting a code in a huge code. 
they are hard to be defeated. 
they use zero day vunerability. 


zero day vulnerability is the one that information researcher holds, but can use that as a weapon against the vendor. 

window of vulnerability is the time betweeen the zero day vulnerability and the new security update.































